- [Instructor] As with every technical decision,
there are trade-offs when making decisions
on how to develop software.
Asynchronous communications is no exception to this rule.
One of the single biggest trade-offs
with a microservices implementation
that includes asynchronous messaging
is the overall complexity of the system.
Some of the complexity comes from artifact sprawl.
Usually consumers of messages are individual artifacts
that have their own repositories, build pipelines,
deployment pipelines, and configuration management.
You now have to account for all of this in your system.
Another complexity issue comes from disconnected code paths.
This adds complexity to many areas of your system,
as we will discuss, but for now,
considering the debugging pathway alone,
having disconnected paths makes debugging,
troubleshooting, and evaluating outcomes significantly
more complex than in a standard synchronous system.
Multiple paths through asynchronous messaging systems
can also increase complexity.
Not all communications, as we will see,
follow a point-to-point model.
Once you add in fanouts or conditional jobs,
your system increases in complexity for all aspects
from development to operations.
Observability is one area that the complexity
dramatically increases because, as you might imagine,
the disconnect in call stacks
makes traditional observability that much harder.
Lack of immediate response means
that your inspection of issues has a disconnect.
You lose the ability to log the error or success
in the client immediately.
As such, you have to inspect other logs
to complete the view of the whole process.
Obviously, logging is critical for observability
of the health of a system.
Often, in synchronous services,
the logs and errors are unified.
Well, in asynchronous styles, this isn't the case.
When dealing with messaging, it is even worse.
Often, you need to add things like correlation IDs
to your log messages to help you aggregate the logs
and reassemble calls.
Much like log aggregation,
correlation of metrics becomes a challenge.
This is critical for chains of calls in asynchronous styles
because of the isolation of components.
There still may be a need to figure out the upstream
and downstream causes of an abnormal load.
As such, this metrics correlation can require
a deeper evaluation of the code as a whole.
There is more complexity at play in a system
that is based on asynchronous communications
than we are discussing here,
but I do want to point out a few more issues
that need to be taken into account.
The sheer fact that components will increase,
especially in an asynchronous messaging system,
and that adds to complexity to several areas.
We already pointed out a few,
but you need to remember that each new component
not only brings the overhead of that component
across all of your build and deployment pipelines,
but also in your resource utilization
within the system as a whole.
New artifacts, especially in containerized environments,
have their own overhead with respect to resources.
You potentially have more database connections,
more RAM and CPU utilization, and other costs.
If you work in a commercialized containerized environment,
you will have more containers running,
which also impacts your operational costs.
I talked about observability being a trade-off
with asynchronous systems.
Well, that trade-off has impacts on operations.
As you saw, some of the key indicators an operations team
would use to evaluate the health of a system,
like logging and metrics,
are impacted by asynchronous messaging.
As such, overall operational evaluations
become a little bit more tricky.
The asynchronous nature of your systems
and the expected hops must be well-documented.
Operations must be able to trace a task through the system
without the need for debugging code
of possibly hundreds of artifacts.
In addition, you need to provide as much information
via logs to allow for aggregation
and quick inspection of potentially troubled workloads.
This isn't a trivial exercise,
but it is inherently critical to ensure
the system can be run and maintained.
You need to build and keep well-maintained
operational runbooks for every system and component.
Finally, I want to discuss an ethereal trade-off.
From my experiences with these patterns,
finding the source of an issue
is significantly more complex.
While an issue may still arise in a single component
and the logs of that component can help,
the root cause is not so easy to find.
There are times where contracts may be validated
or new use cases not originally intended
cause a message, and subsequent consumer,
to be fired in a not so good state.
This new use case or modification of an existing one
can make identifying the issue source significantly harder.
In a choreographed event model, for instance,
which we will talk about later,
the downstream impact of an issue may be several hops
down the message chain, therefore,
tracing the issue through the call stacks is harder.
Your development staff must learn solid debugging skills,
which is becoming a challenge in some circles,
so take this into consideration.